= rplot

*rplot* is a C extension for Ruby of GNU libplot.

{GNU
libplot}[http://www.gnu.org/software/plotutils/manual/html_mono/plotutils.html#SEC45]
is a free function library for drawing two-dimensional vector
graphics. It can produce smooth, double-buffered animations for the X
Window System, and can export files in many graphics file formats. It
is `device-independent' in the sense that its API (application
programming interface) is to a large extent independent of the display
type or output format. Rplot is a C extension for Ruby of GNU libplot.

== Requirements

* libplot-dev

For Debian/Ubuntu users: <tt>apt-get install libplot-dev</tt>.

For Max OS X users use {port}[http://www.macports.org/]: <tt>port
install plotutils</tt>.

== Installation

    gem install rplot

== Usage

Here two little examples.

The first invokes rplot operations to draw vector graphics. It draws
an intricate and beautiful path (Bill Gosper's "C" curve, discussed as
Item #135 in HAKMEM, MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory Memo #239,
1972). As the numeric constant MAXORDER (here equal to 12) is
increased, the path will take on the shape of a curly letter "C",
which is the envelope of a myriad of epicyclic octagons.

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'rplot'

    module MyCurve
      MAXORDER = 12
      def draw_curve(dx, dy, order)
        if order >= MAXORDER
          self.cont(dx, dy, :rel => true)
        else
          self.draw_curve(0.5*(dx-dy), 0.5*(dx+dy), order+1)
          self.draw_curve(0.5*(dx+dy), 0.5*(dy-dx), order+1)
        end
      end
    end
    Plotter.send(:include, MyCurve)

    Plotter.params(:pagesize => 'letter')

    Plotter.draw('png', 'RUBYtest3.png')do |p|
      p.space(0,0, 1000,1000)
      p.linewidth(0.25)
      p.pencolor('red')
      p.move(600, 300)
      p.draw_curve(0, 400, 0)
    end

The second example creates a simple animated pseudo-GIF, 150 pixels
wide and 100 pixels high.

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'rplot'

    Plotter.params(:bitmapsize => '150x100',
                   :bg_color => 'orange',
                   :transparent_color => 'orange',
                   :gif_iterations => 100,
                   :gif_delay => 5)
    p = Plotter.new('gif', 'image.gif')
    p.open
    p.space(0,0,149,99)
    p.pencolor('red')
    p.linewidth(5)
    p.filltype(1)
    p.fillcolor('black')
    i = 0
    while i < 180
      p.erase
      p.erase
      p.ellipse(75,50,40,20,i)
      i += 15
    end
    p.delete

<b>{Here the complete documentation with
API}[http://pioz.github.com/rplot/Plotter.html]</b>.

== Questions or problems?

If you have any issues with rplot please add an {issue on
GitHub}[https://github.com/pioz/rplot/issues] or fork the project and
send a pull request.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Enrico Pilotto. See
{LICENSE}[http://github.com/pioz/rplot/blob/master/LICENSE] for
details.

